# BiomarkerClustering

Knight ADRC Clustering Analysis
Participant Inclusion
In order to be included in this analysis, participants must have completed a lumbar puncture (CSF Aβ42, total tau and pTau181 evaluated on Elecsys 1500 run) and structural MRI within 2 years of each other. If a participant has multiple visits with paired lumbar puncture and MRI, the visit with the smallest amount of time elapsed between visits will be retained. Other available biomarkers (CSF VILIP1, Neurogranin (NGRN), SNAP25, YKL40, Neurofilament Light Chain (NFL), sTREM2; Blood NFL and  Aβ42/ Aβ40 ratio; PET AV45, PET PiB, PET AV1451; FDG; Structural MRI; White matter hyperintensity (WMH); Resting State (rsFC); Preclinical Alzheimer Cognitive Composite (PACC)) will be included if they were collected within 2 years of the lumbar puncture date.
Missing Value Imputation
Because clustering analysis requires a complete dataset, and very few ADRC participants have completed all of the aforementioned measurements, several forms of missing value imputation will be applied and assessed. Multivariate imputation by chained equations, median value imputation, k-nearest neighbor imputation, and zero value imputation will be applied. Quality of missing value imputation will be evaluated by comparing paired correlations between all biomarkers using both non-imputed values and the full dataset that includes imputed values. The method that yields the greatest concordance between the imputed dataset and the original dataset will be employed for further analysis.
Clustering Analysis
We will calculate Spearman correlations between each pair of biomarkers and generate spring embedded plots in order to visualize the relationships between them. A preliminary spring embedded plot for both cognitively normal (Fig. 1A) and symptomatic (Fig. 1B) ADRC participants is shown. This plot relies on pilot data from 614 participants from previous studies and multivariate imputation by chained equations. We will also perform hierarchical clustering analysis in order to quantitatively assess the similarity between each biomarker, as well as each cluster of biomarkers. Using the same pilot dataset, we can identify several clusters: Pathology driven cluster (WMH, FDG, rsFC), Amyloid (PET – PiB, PET – AV45, CSF Aβ42), Emerging biomarkers (sTREM2, SNAP25, pTau, total Tau, NGRN, VILIP1, YKL40, NFL), and Neurodegeneration/cognition (Hippocampal volume, cortical volume, PACC, and PET – AV1451) (Fig. 2).
